>> Richard Feldman: So
this kind of begs the question,
what is the type of List.head?
I mean,
it can't be just one of these, right?
It can't be List.head takes a list of
strings and returns a navy string, or
a List.float and returns a navy float, or
even list.bool and returns a navy bool,
because it's all of those.
Depending on how it's used, it ends
up with a different type parameter.
How does that work?
So the answer is that it has
what's known as a type variable.
So, this the type of a List.head.
It's list, elem, with a lower case E to
maybe elem, which also has a lower case E.
So, here elem is a type variable.
It's a name that I choose, I could've
chosen any name that I want, I could've
also annotated it this way, list of elem
maybe even just list of v or maybe v.
All of this type annotations
do exactly the same thing.
The critical piece is that A,
it's lower case.
So the lowercase part means it's
a variable, not a concrete type like
the uppercase types that we've normally
seen in type annotations up to this point.
And B, that they agree.
So this is saying,
I have a list of somethings and
I gives back maybe of
the same sort of thing.
Same thing with val, if I've chosen
the name val here that's all well and
good, but
this one needs to agree with that.
It's saying that whatever
that type turns out to be,
when I actually call this function,
that's the maybe I'm gonna get back and
that's how we can have this flexibility.
Where if I give it a list of strings,
it gives me back a maybe string.
If I give it a list of floats it gives
me back a maybe float and so forth.
But I can pick any number of
different names here that I want.
These are called type variables these
things in blue here the lowercase one is
a type variable.
Okay, so these come up in a number
of different circumstances.
So list dot reverse is another one this
takes a list of, again here I chose,
I happen to choose the name item,
could've also chosen val or v or elem.
So takes a list of items and
returns a list of the same type of items.
So if I give list out
reversal with some strings,
it will give me back also a list
of strings, just in reverse order.
I can also use that on numbers if I want,
that's totally fine.
I can also use List.singleton,
which takes a single value and then,
returns a list of those values.
It basically just wraps it up.
It's the same thing as putting
square brackets around it.
Except, in the form of a function.
Yeah, and
here's an example of List.singleton.
Cool, okay, so this is List.head.
So what is the type of Maybe?
How is that actually
defined as a custom type?
So we could say type Maybe = Just and
Nothing, but
we know that it's not just an enumeration.
There actually is some data
being held onto there.
And that data is represented
as a type variable.
So it says type Maybe val
= Just val / Nothing.
In other words, what's storied in
the Just is not fixed, it's not a string,
it's not an int, it's not a float,
it depends entirely on the Maybe,
it's a little bit more flexible than that.
So this allows us to have Maybes of
different types, of different shapes.
Maybe can be used on strings,
on hints on faults,
on whatever you want,
depending on the circumstance.
And because we a type variable up here
as well, it says when I call List.head
the type of this variant is going to end
up depending on the elements in this list.
If I call this .head
with a list of strings,
this maybe is going to hold on
to just a string or nothing.
Call floats to floats,
just a float or nothing.